confused about the cosmos can't tell a
planet from a star then give us just
five minutes and we'll show you what
they are
Jack Horkheimer stargazer tells you all
about the night sky and the biggest show
of all the universe and now this week's
episode april showers bring May flowers
an easy way to find two cosmic blues
greetings greetings fellow stargazers
every April I like to remind you of how
you can have fun with the Big Dipper in
early evening because it is positioned
in such a way that it gives credence to
a very old folk saying plus it is so
high above the horizon that it can be
used to easily find two wonderful stars
of spring let me show you okay we've got
our skies set up for any night in April
between the hours of 8:00 and 10:00 p.m.
looking you north where you will see the
Big Dipper almost directly above and
just to the right of the North Star it's
pointed down in such a way that if it
were filled full of water the water
would be pouring out directly onto the
ground below which gives celestial
priests an old saying april showers
bring May flowers because every April in
early evening the biggest water dipper
in the heavens is indeed position so
that it is pouring its imaginary cosmic
water onto the earth below plus because
it's so high above the horizon it makes
it very easy to use the three stars in
the dippers handle as a finder to locate
two wonderful stars of spring which are
also blooming very high above the
horizon to find these celestial posies
simply draw an imaginary line through
the handle of the Big Dipper extend it
in the same curve or arc as the handle
and is any good amateur astronomer will
tell you you will arc to Arcturus which
means that that curve line will bump
right into Arcturus the brightest star
Bootes the herdsman then if you extend
that curve on from Arcturus you can
quickly speed right onto Spica the
brightest star of Virgo the virgin
another lovely cosmic springtime bloom
once again using the handle and it's
curve simply arc to our tourists pause
for a few seconds then speed on to Spica
what could be easier and now that you
found them you might like to know that
these are super blooms compared to our
own local star flower the Sun indeed
Spica is over five and a half times the
size of our Sun and it's a much hotter
star so hot that it shines five thousand
times brighter our tourists on the other
hand is a whopping 70 times the size of
our Sun but because it is cooler then
Spica shines only 1200 times as bright
as our Sun - pretty big cosmic blooms in
our celestial spring garden wouldn't you
say but equally fascinating is comparing
their distances away from us our Sun is
so close that we see the light that left
it only eight and a third minutes ago so
we say that our son is eight in the
third light minutes away our tourists on
the other hand is 37 like years away
which means we see the light that left
it 37 years ago in 1973 three years
before America's Bicentennial Spica
however is seven times farther away than
our tourists 263 light-years away which
means we see the light that left it 263
years ago in 1747 29 years before the
signing of the Declaration of
Independence indeed when we look at our
Sun Arcturus and Spica we see them each
not as they exist now but as they
existed sometime in
past depending on their distance from us
Wow
so get the opportunity and 10 p.m.
fine the Big Dipper as it rains down
cosmic April showers for earthly May
flowers then our to Arcturus and speed
on us mica keep looking up